Miniera Ferromin Malonno - Bergwerk
25040 Malonno BS
Italien
gruppospeleocamuno.it

Miniere Valvassera - Bergwerk
Via Valganna
21039 Valganna VA
Italien

Miniera di Arenas - Bergwerk
SS126
09010 Fluminimaggiore SU
tin

Carbosulcis coal mine - Bergwerk
09010 Nuraxi Figus SU
+39 0781 29104
carbosulcis.eu
Carbosulcis CO2 storage potential project
Carbosulcis S.p.A. is a coal mining company based in SouthWest of Sardinia, Italy. It  employs about 500 units in total in underground and surface activities, and is managed by the Sardinian Government since 1996.
The “Miniera Monte Sinni” Coal Mining Concession, the only active coal mine in Italy, exploits the Sulcis Eocenic Coal Basin, worth of 2.5 Billion tons of sub-bitumineous coal reserves for about 400 km2 of extent in-shore and about the same off-shore.
The amount of underground coal reserves in the 55 km2 mine concession is over 60 Mtons. The potential yearly u/g longwall production of the mine is 1.5 M tons of saleable coal.
Actually the mine depth is comprised between 350 and 500m underground, and its coal is burned by the ENEL Power Plant of Portovesme, located 3 km from the mine.
Carbosulcis S.p.A. promotes R&D activities, aimed mainly at optimising coal production processes, integrating mining production with the other activities of the power production cycle and opening new markets through studies and applications on advanced technologies, mainly related to CCS/ECBM applications in non-minable areas of the basin deeper than 700 m.
After a period of prefeasibility studies, Carbosulcis has held an international partnership of experienced members to deeply study the potentiality of deployment of Carbon Capture and Storage Technologies. In 2007 Carbosulcis obtained a Reseach Permission for Methane, Coal and Thermal Water in the on-shore south west area of the Sulcis coal basin. In March 2008 Carbosulcis and its partners started the Carbosulcis Project for CBM/ECBM and aquifers CO2 storage technologies.
This project is aimed at assessing coal properties in the deeper parts of the Sulcis basin (“Is Urigus” Research Permit) and is focused both to ECBM and saline acquifers storage technologies. It consists of:
campaign of more than 1000 m deep core drills;
samples analysis for physical-chemical properties assessment;
seismic campaign and modelling activities for reservoir characterization.
Finally, Carbosulcis is involved in the national programme  on CCS funded by Ministry of Economic Development.
All the planned activities are carried out in order to be fully compliant with EU proposed directive (23.01.2008 n.2008/0015).

In the Bourbon Tunnel of Naples you can also participate in an Adventure course with a raft in the flooded tunnels. (photo: www.galleriaborbonica.com)
In the complex of the Bourbon Tunnel there is also a "parking" of abandoned Vespas, as well as vintage cars and motorcycles preserved underground (photo: galelriaborbonica.it).

TURIN - For the siege of 1706 the Savoy wanted an underground city from the fortified Citadel to the royal residences, practically under the entire historic center. Three-level labyrinth, often still accessible from the private cellars of the old buildings (the "infernotti"), the best way to visit the city's underground is by the Pietro Micca Museum or with Somewhere tours.

FERMO - The jewel village of the Marca Fermana also boasts, a few steps from Pizza del Popolo, the complex of the Cisterne ROmane, an Augustan masterpiece among the largest in Europe: 30 large rooms with a barrel vault for a total of 2,200 square meters. More info on www.fermomusei, it, visits with Fermosterranea.it (photo: fermosostterranea.it)

SIENA - The "bottini" are the underground tunnels built in the 13th-15th century for the water supply in the Sienna subsoil. In the photo, the "fontanella" (Photo: from "Journey in Underground Italy", by Fabrizio Ardito, Giunti).
The tunnels extend for about 25 km and are mostly carved out of the rock. The walls are covered with incrustations and stalactites. According to legend, they would communicate with the mythical underground river sacred to Diana. Info and visits with Diana Siena (Photo: from "Journey into Underground Italy", by Fabrizio Ardito, Giunti).

CHIUSI - Also in Tuscany, the history of Chiusi is linked to the reign of the Etruscans, who under the king Porsenna, in 510 BC. C., even challenged Rome. You get to the underground city from the Civic Museum, with a large Etruscan well from which you can admire the Fontebranda lake, as well as many cinerary urns. Info: www.museisenesi.org (photo: Gilberto Maltinti)

To see the Labyrinth of Porsenna, however, between narrow corridors and tunnels, you need to go to the Cathedral Museum. And go down this ladder. (Photo: Gilberto Maltinti)
Almost a speleological adventure in the underground labyrinth of the tomb of Porsenna, in the subsoil of the cathedral of Chiusi (photo: Gilberto Maltinti)


https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/14-reader-favorite-caves